
Transcriber Note

Text emphasis is as follows: _Italic_.
Whole and fractional parts of numbers: 1-2/3





  VOLUME ELEVEN                                        NUMBER ONE
  ===============================================================

                                JOURNAL
                                  OF
                              ENTOMOLOGY
                                  AND
                                ZOOLOGY

                              MARCH, 1919

                        PUBLISHED QUARTERLY BY
              POMONA COLLEGE DEPARTMENT _of_ ZOOLOGY
                    CLAREMONT, CALIFORNIA, U. S. A.

  ===============================================================


                                 CONTENTS

                                                             Page

  New Polychaetous Annelids from Laguna Beach,
      Cal.--_Ralph V. Chamberlin_                              1

  The Nervous System of Cæcum Californicum--_W. A. Hilton_    24

  Amphipods from Laguna Beach                                 26


  ===============================================================

  Entered Claremont, Cal., Post-Office Oct. 1, 1910, as second-class
            matter, under Act of Congress of March 3, 1879




Journal of Entomology and Zoology

EDITED BY POMONA COLLEGE, DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY


_Subscription_ $1.00 to domestic, $1.25 to foreign countries.

This journal is especially offered in exchange for zoological
and entomological journals, proceedings, transactions, reports
of societies, museums, laboratories and expeditions.

The pages of the journal are especially open to western entomologists
and zoologists. Notes and papers relating to western
and Californian forms and conditions are particularly desired,
but short morphological, systematic or economic studies from
any locality will be considered for publication.

Manuscripts submitted should be typewritten on one side of
paper about 8 by 11 inches. Foot notes, tables, explanations of
figures, etc., should be written on separate sheets. Foot notes
and figures should be numbered consecutively throughout. The
desired position of foot notes and figures should be clearly
indicated in the manuscript.

Figures should be drawn so that they may be reproduced as
line cuts so far as possible. An unusually large number of half
tones must be paid for in part by the author. Other more
expensive illustrations will be furnished at cost. Figures for
cuts should be made to conform to the size of the page when
reduced, that is, 5 by 7-1/2 inches or less. The lettering should
be by means of printed numbers and letters pasted on the
drawings, in most cases.

Authors of articles longer than a thousand words will receive
fifty reprints of their publications free of cost. If more than
this are desired, the order should be given with the return of
the proof sheets. Extra copies and special covers or special
paper will be furnished at cost. Authors of short contributions
will receive a few extra copies of the number containing their
articles.

Manuscripts should be sent by express or registered mail.

Address all communications to

  The Journal of Entomology and Zoology

  William A. Hilton, Editor

  Claremont, California, U.S.A.




New Polychaetous Annelids From Laguna Beach, California

RALPH V. CHAMBERLIN


In a very interesting collection of annelids from Laguna Beach
transmitted to me for study by Prof. Hilton, the apparently previously
undescribed forms listed below are represented. As a comprehensive
report on the annelids of the region to follow further explorations and
collecting is in contemplation, I am giving here only such preliminary
accounts of the new forms as are thought sufficient for their
identification in the local fauna. The types of all these species are
in the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge.


POLYNOIDAE


_Halosydna latior_ sp. nov.

A species proportionately broader over all than the usual forms of the
common _H. insignis_, _californica_, and _pulchra_. It is characterized
by elytra not only closely imbricated along each side but also broadly
overlapping in the middle line throughout the length. The elytra in
general are unusually elongate in an oblique direction, the long axis
running from the outer end cephalomesad; the outline subelliptic, the
caudomesal edge broadly convex, the opposite one a little incurved at
middle. The entire surface of elytra subdensely covered with very small
rounded brown nodules or tubercles; within the middle region, just
behind the edge of the preceding overlapping elytron, a number of much
larger paler tubercles which in the type are present on all excepting
the last pair. Elytra extending to outer ends of parapodia. Eighteen
pairs of elytra present. Prostomium subangularly bulging on each side,
the anterior eye at the angle, the posterior eye removed far caudad,
by about half the greatest width of the prostomium. Paired anterior
prolongations of the prostomium very long, as long as the median length
of the prostomium back to level of posterior eyes, distally clavate.
Median ceratophore much stouter than the lateral prolongations and
exceeding them by more than a third in length. Median tentacle long,
nearly attaining end of palpi; slender, narrowing distad, only slightly
thickened subapically, with the usual slender tip which is of moderate
length. Lateral tentacles much shorter, their tips reaching only to
near middle of light region between proximal black region and subapical
black ring of median tentacle. Tentacular cirri resembling median
tentacle in form, being narrowed distad with subapical enlargement
slight; one or two fine setae emerging from a small nodule at distal
end of parapodium proximad of tentacular cirrus. The notocirri in
general have the same characteristic form as the tentacular cirri,
narrowing continuously distad with the subapical enlargement slight.
First neurocirrus very elongate, surpassing the parapodium. The other
neurocirri slenderly cylindroconical, narrowed into a slender tip and
a little narrowed proximally; attached well toward base of parapodium
the end of which they fail much of attaining. A characteristic feature
is the elongate form of the nephridial papillæ, these in the type
as preserved being mostly near three times as long as thick at the
middle. Neuropodial setae dark amber colored, numerous, arranged in two
continuous regions, a narrow dorsal one and a much broader ventral one
in the latter of which the setae form four distinct longitudinal series
with five or six setae in each series. Notopodials moderate in number,
the dorsal ones short, the most ventral long, attaining the end of the
neuropodium. The elytra are greyish with dusky or brownish mottlings.
Notocirri with dark annulations as usual.

Length, 42 mm.; width to end of setae, 14 mm.; to end of parapodia,
10.8 mm.; exclusive of parapodia, 7 mm.

Taken on Laguna Beach at Mussel Point (Hamilton coll.).

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 138.


_Halosydna tuberculifer_ sp. nov.

Among other forms known from the California coast characterized
especially by the strong tuberculation of all the elytra. The tubercles
are mostly large and conical though some are rounded and are confined
chiefly to the mesocaudal half and median region of each elytron, a
series of large ones ordinarily present along the caudal and caudomesal
margin; in the first two or three pairs of elytra the tubercles
of the median region especially large, the tubercles on the first
pair occurring on the anterior part as well; ectal margin of elytra
strongly fringed or ciliate. Elytra in general subcircular but with
margin of ectocephalic side flattened or in part a little incurved.
Elytra in contact or nearly so at median line but not there at all
overlapping. Pairs of elytra eighteen, these being present on somites
II, IV, V, VII, IX and so on alternate ones to XXV and then on XXVI,
XXVIII, XXX, XXXI, and XXXIII. The last three setigerous somites bear
notocirri. Anterior pair of eyes near middle of length of prostomium
proper, larger than posterior pair which are a little closer together
and are well removed from the others. Lateral prolongations of the
prostomium in front which bear the lateral tentacles only a little
shorter than the median ceratophore though much more slender. Median
tentacle shorter than the palpi, moderately enlarged and strongly
rounded subapically and with the usual slender tip or filament which
is comparatively short. The lateral tentacles of similar form but
much shorter and more slender. Neurocirri of first normal segment
large, resembling a notocirrus. The other neurocirri much shorter,
subconical, constricted at base and prolonged into a slender but short
tip; attached near base of neuropodium in each case. Anal cirri similar
to notocirri but much longer and stouter. Neuropodial setae of usual
general form, amber colored with dark tip, arranged mostly in two or
three, usually uneven, subvertical series. The notopodial setae fine,
numerous, the longer ones not falling much short of or reaching the
ends of the neuropodials. The nephridial papillæ occupy the ordinary
position; they are small and unusually short. The color of the elytra
uniform greyish brown. Antennæ, tentacular cirri and notocirri banded
at base and distally with black.

Length, 23 mm.; width exclusive of parapodia, 3 mm. A little narrowed
cephalad, somewhat more so caudal.

Taken at Laguna Beach under stones. (1917)

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 139.


_Halosydna leioseta_ sp. nov.

Body strongly and continuously narrowed caudad. Prostomium wider than
long, deeply bilobed, the median tentacle inserted deeply in the
intervening incision. Lobes extended forward into peaks which, however,
are constricted at base so as to give appearance of more or less
distinct ceratophores, these short. Anterior eye free on each side,
the caudal one much farther mesad and overlapped by the peristomium.
Tentacles short, the median line a little longest and about equalling
the palpi; in each a slender tip above the moderate subdistal swelling
about equal in length to the remaining part of the style. Tentacular
cirri similarly formed, as is also the first neurocirrus, the latter
less clavate below the slender tip. Other neurocirri much shorter,
shortly subfusiform with filiform tip short; characteristically
inserted almost precisely at middle of length of the neuropodium.
Notopodia reduced to small lobes at base of neuropodia above, these
lobes smooth, bearing no emergent setae in the type. In the average
neuropodium the setae are mostly six in number; these are coarse, with
subhastate heads the tips of which are curved, entire, and acute; the
surface appears smooth, the seriate spinules being exceedingly minute
and easily overlooked; pale straw colored. The notocirri have the
usual enlarged distal end baring a slender tip and a little exceed the
neuropodial setae. The elytra have an arrangement in general similar to
that normal in Halosydna so far as that usually goes, but twenty-four
pairs are present, these occurring on somites, II, IV, V, VII, IX,
XI, XIII, XV, XVII, XIX, XXI, XXIII, and XXVI, XXVIII, XXIX, XXXI,
XXXIII, XXXV, XXXVII, XXXIX, XLI, XLIII, XLV, and XLVII. The elytra
are characteristically widely imbricated so as completely to cover the
dorsum and prostomium. They extend out far laterally so as wholly to
overlap the parapodia proper though the ends of the setae and notocirri
extend beyond the edges. The elytra have the surface wholly smooth and
the edges are also not fringed. As preserved, the type has no definite
color markings; color greyish, the elytra of weak fulvous cast.

Length near 22 mm.; greatest width exclusive of parapodia, 2.8 mm.; to
ends of parapodia, 5 mm.; to ends of setae, 6.8 mm.

Taken as a commensal on a sea-urchin (Metz, July 20, 1911).

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 140.


_Lepidonotus setosior_ sp. nov.

Readily distinguished from _L. squamatus_, _coeloris_ and other
species recorded from the Pacific coasts of North and South America
by the greater length and coarseness of the notopodial setae, these
being stout pointed spines often nearly attaining the ends of the
neuropodials and thus exceeding the latter in actual length. The
notopodials, however, are obviously more slender than the neuropodials;
they are much more numerous than the neuropodials and form a dense,
subcylindrical, spreading group. The elytra are characterized by
bearing over their free portions numerous high and stout, conical,
hard or chitinous tubercles which are, however, much less dense than
the very different rounded eminences of _squamatus_, these cones often
roughened; between these high cones, and over the covered part of the
elytra as well, numerous small rounded tubercles or nodules; much more
slender and shorter, erect, conical papillæ present on the outer border
of at least some of the elytra but no truly ciliate fringe could be
detected in the types. The elytra are long, subelliptic in outline, and
are arranged either with axis nearly longitudinal or very oblique, the
most anterior elytra, however, subcircular. Eyes on each side unusually
widely separated, the anterior one low on side, a little ectocaudad
of base of anterior process. Anterior processes of prostomium about
four-fifths as long as the median ceratophore and much more slender.
Lateral tentacles much more slender than the median, and, exclusive
of the filamentous tip, falling short of attaining the middle of the
style of the latter exclusive of its tip; styles biannulate with black
as frequent, the basal process also black. Median tentacle surpassing
palpi in length; subapical swelling pronounced, much more so than that
of the laterals. Tentacular cirri and notocirri similar in form to the
median tentacle. Anal cirri proportionately somewhat shorter than in
_squamatus_. Color of venter and parapodia grey; elytra at present grey
over a fulvous ground. Setae dark amber to nearly ferruginous, darker
than usual in _squamatus_. A paratype has elytra fulvous of dilute
ferruginous cast with black mottlings.

Length, 18 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 141.


_Lepidonotus leius_ sp. nov.

A species characterized by its rather thin, easily detached elytra
which have their surface wholly smooth or, at most, showing a few
scattered minute points; closely fringed along the outer margin, about
the cephaloectal region, and for a short distance along the anterior
edge. Elytrophore attached cephaloectad of middle. Anterior and ectal
margins of a typical elytron only weakly convex, the cephaloectal
corner subrectangular though rounded; caudal margin strongly convex,
the inner end of elytron like the end of an ellipse but with lower
margin the more oblique. Elytra transverse or but little oblique,
strongly overlapping in the middorsal line. Prostomium of usual
general form. Eyes large and black, the anterior ones near middle
of main region of prostomium, the posterior ones closer together
and at caudal end. Only one tentacle, a lateral, retained in type.
This characterized by a short cylindrical style which to the base
of the distal swelling is scarcely longer than the basal process,
and especially by an unusually long slender tip which is as long as
the rest of the style. The parapodium of the first segment bears two
prominent setae in the usual position; tentacular cirri of usual form,
the filiform tips long, when bent back reaching proximad of middle of
style. Notocirri also characterized by their long terminal filaments.
Neuropodial setae light amber-colored; arranged in the usual vertically
elongate patch, presenting a narrow dorsal half and a broader ventral
one. In the ventral part of the patch normally four longitudinal rows
of three setae each, while the narrower upper region shows also about
four rows but with only two or one in each. The setae have the usual
general structure. Notopodials numerous, reaching beyond distal end of
neuropodia and sometimes nearly to middle of the neuropodial setae. In
the type the elytra are light brown. The tentacles and notocirri ringed
with black as common.

Length, 13 mm.; width exclusive of parapodia, 3 mm.; width to tips of
setae, 6 mm.

Dredged.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 142.


PHYLLODOCIDAE


_Hesperophyllum_ gen. nov.

Similar in general to _Notophyllum_ and _Austrophyllum_ but differing
especially in having the ventral cirrus of the second segment flattened
and foliaceous and strongly asymmetrical. It is like _Notophyllum_ and
unlike _Austrophyllum_ in having the first segment dorsally reduced.

_Genotype._--_H. tectum_ sp. nov.


_Hesperophyllum tectum_ sp. nov.

The first segment dorsally reduced. Ventral tentacular cirrus of second
somite of a thin or foliaceous and asymmetrical form. Other tentacular
cirri subcylindric, reduced distally to a pointed tip, that of I about
half as long as the dorsals of II and III. Paired tentacles short,
proximally thick and convexly bulging, abruptly narrowed to an acute
tip with incurving sides. Unpaired tentacle situated between eyes in
line connecting their centers, nearly of same length and size as the
first tentacular cirri and about as long also as prostomium; annulate.
Prostomium shortly subcordate, well rounded in front, incurved
caudally. With very large cirri of which the dorsals widely overlap
in the middle and thus completely cover the dorsum, the prostomium
normally also being wholly concealed from above. The neurocirrus of
a typical parapodium is attached by a broad base extending from a
pronounced ventral swelling or flange (neurocirrophore) across the
caudal side of the parapodium to its dorsal edge and projects farther
dorsad of the parapodium than ventrad, the dorsomesal end widely
rounded; much broader dorsoventrally than long, with the free edge
evenly rounded. The notocirrophore in a thick rounded body arising
from the base of the parapodium proper and showing the notopodium as
a proportionately much smaller lobe on its ectal side; the style is
attached about its caudal half-circumference and is broadly subreniform
with the free margin coarsely crenulate or wavy, its mesal limb
widely overlapping that of the opposite notocirrus and its ectal
one overlapping the neurocirrus. Surface of cirri and of somites,
especially ventrally, densely covered with very fine brown dots or
points. Number of segments in type, near seventy-three. Body narrowing
caudad, becoming narrow and pointed at posterior end. Proboscis unknown.

Length, 19 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 143.

Dredged. Brown in life, this color being also retained in the preserved
type specimen. A paratype has a greenish cast. This species suggests
_Notophyllum imbricatum_ Moore in the large imbricated notocirri
covering the dorsum but in the latter all the tentacular cirri are of
the elongate, symmetrical, evenly tapering form characteristic of its
genus. _Imbricatum_ similarly presents nuchal appendages, but these
are three in number on each side and slender, instead of two broad,
subelliptic lobes. The neuropodium is distally narrowed instead of
broad, the head is differently formed, and various other differences
are present throughout.


_Steggoa gracilior_ sp. nov.

This is a small and slender form noted as green in life and also
retaining this color after preservation in alcohol. It agrees in
general with _Steggoa_, the first segment being normally developed
above and distinct from the prostomium though not so clearly separated
as usual, suggesting a tendency toward the _Hypoeulalia_ condition.
Prostomium a little longer than wide, narrowed anteriorly, sides
convex; a short lobe, rounded in front and bearing the four tentacles,
is set off by a weak constriction from the basal part. Unpaired
tentacle situated well caudad, more slender than the paired ones
but nearly as long. Eyes not detected. Ventral tentacular cirrus of
II of a thick, leaf-shaped form, sublanceolate in outline and much
like the notocirri. The other tentacular cirri longer and filiform.
Notocirri in outline lanceolate, characteristically exceptionally thick
in proportion to width so as at times to appear nearly subconical.
Neurocirri much smaller; similarly proportionately thick and at times
subconical. Body slender, strongly narrowed from the middle toward both
ends. The proboscis densely and uniformly papillose throughout. Number
of segments near one hundred and twenty-three.

Length, about 26 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 144.


_Sige californiensis_ sp. nov.

Corresponding closely in general characters with _S. macroceros_
(Grube), the genotype. Green in color instead of straw-yellow to
brown. Tentacles long and slender as in _macroceros_, with the median
equalling the others in length and inserted close to the base of the
latter; tips of tentacles slenderly attenuated. The eyes seem to be
proportionately larger than in _macroceros_. The first segment is
reduced above at the sides where the prostomium bulges back on each
side; but the middle region is well developed, extending forward on the
base of the head as a rounded lobe or flap. Very easily distinguished
from _macroceros_ and other known species by the form of the ventral
tentacular cirrus of the second segment which, in place of the
ordinarily lanceolate foliaceous form, is very strongly expanded above
the base, presenting a large rounded lobe in front and an abruptly much
more slender tip, with the blade as a whole irregularly twisted. The
parapodia very similar to those of the genotype; but the setigerous
lobe less acutely and less deeply notched and rather broader across the
end along the setigerous line. The notocirri rather more slender and
narrowed more evenly distally, not incurved on each side distally so as
to leave an elongate tip set off from the rest. The neurocirri similar
but more asymmetrical, the upper margin straight or concave, the lower
convex. Anal cirri missing. Proboscis not protruded. Total number of
segments in the type, which is complete, sixty-eight.

Length, 10 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 145.

Taken under stones.

Moore has described _Eulalia (Sige) bifoliata_ from Monterey Bay; but
as the ventral tentacular cirrus of II is described and figured as
cylindroconical, that species cannot be properly referred to _Sige_ as
now restricted.


_Anaitides heterocirrus_ sp. nov.

Close to _A. mucosa_ (Oersted) in the characters of the proboscis,
having similarly six rows of papillæ proximally on each side with the
number in each series normally nine or ten, but distinct in the form
of the cirri. The three first pairs of normal foliaceous notocirri
much smaller than the succeeding ones and different in shape, being
very broadly and evenly elliptic, the distal end of the third, e. g.,
broadly rounded, not conspicuously narrowed as in _mucosa_. In the
average parapodia of the middle region of the body the neurocirri
are obviously broader with the tip stouter and less acute; and the
notocirri, while in general somewhat similar in form, are more elongate
with a more pronounced ventral lobe, the distoectal angle more acute
and more produced, while the distomesal corner is more rounded, and the
proportionate width across the distal end appears less. The prostomium
very broadly cordate, notched or constricted at the sides near the
anterior third which is distally broadly rounded; tentacles inserted
on each side at or just distad of the constriction, conical and of
moderate length; caudal margin conspicuously angularly incised at
middle and there embracing a conspicuous nuchal papilla. Eyes about
twice their diameter apart. The type is incomplete caudally, at present
consisting of ninety-five somites and having a length of 35 mm. with a
maximum width, exclusive of parapodia, of 2 mm. The body at present has
a purplish tinge.

Dredged at 10 fathoms on Aug. 27, 1917.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 146.


SYLLIDAE


_Typosyllis bella_ sp. nov.

Differing from _armillaris_ (Müller), _alternata_ (Moore) and related
forms in the form and relations of the prostomium and its appendages.
The prostomium is broadest anteriorly, narrowing caudad and rounded
forward a little at middle in front. A characteristic feature is that
the three tentacles are in a transverse line along the anterior edge,
the median being thus inserted far in advance of the posterior eyes. A
median longitudinal furrow extending forward from caudal edge to base
of median tentacle. The anterior eyes much larger than the posterior
and farther apart, each somewhat transversely elliptic and located
far forward at base of lateral tentacle on its ectal side. The median
tentacle about two and a half times longer than the prostomium; in the
type composed of twenty-one articles; only a little narrowing over
the distal region. Lateral tentacles considerably shorter than the
median. Inferior tentacular cirrus about equal in length to the median
tentacle, the upper one much longer and consisting of about thirty-four
articles. Neurocirri slender, subcylindric, somewhat conical distally
or sometimes a little clavate, surpassing end of parapodium. Notocirri
in anterior region alternating in length, the long ones surpassing the
width of the body proper and consisting of about thirty-two articles
while the short ones embrace only near eighteen. Notocirri becoming
shorter and essentially uniform in the posterior region. Appendage of
setae with subapical tooth larger and stouter, more obtuse, than in
_alternata_, making a wider angle with the apical tooth, and always
conspicuous; the serrations proximad of the tooth fine and rather long.
The body is proportionately rather wide and is depressed or flattened,
narrowing in the posterior region but retaining there the depressed
form. Number of segments in the type, near one hundred and forty-five.
General color yellowish; each somite of anterior region crossed
transversely by two fine complete lines of reddish brown color.

Width in anterior region, exclusive of parapodia, about 1.25 mm.;
length near 20 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 147.

Taken at low tide.

The type is a female turgid with eggs. It is remarkable in presenting
at the same time a well-developed collateral bud from the ventral
surface near the beginning of the posterior third.


_Pionosyllis pigmentata_ sp. nov.

Somewhat resembling _P. elongata_ (Johnson), which also occurs in this
region, but differing in having the dorsum pigmented throughout, being
black or slaty with pale lines between the segments and dividing each
of the latter transversely excepting across the middorsal region. The
pigmentation may sometimes be very dilute. In technical details readily
distinguished from that species, e. g., in the different form of the
appendage of the setae, this being obviously more elongate and erect
and proportionately more slender. Two or more dorsal setae differ in
having shorter, more strongly curved appendages which are wholly smooth
on the concave edge instead of being pubinate to beyond middle as in
the others. Prostomium rather short and broad. Palpi thick the ectal
lobe small as compared with the principal or mesal one; united only at
base. Eyes small, transversely elongate and often curved, the two on
each side close together and sometimes almost fused, with the posterior
one well mesad of but only a little caudad of the anterior one. Median
tentacle situated midway between the two eye groups in a longitudinal
furrow dividing prostomium; composed of eighteen to twenty-three short
articles. Each paired tentacle at corner of prostomium in front of
eye-group of corresponding side; similar in form and size to the median
tentacle. Lower tentacular cirrus about equalling a tentacle in length,
the dorsal longer, both of similar form. First segment extending
forward in a rounded or subtriangular lobe or flap at middle above. The
notocirri attached above bases of parapodia as usual; long, composed of
numerous short segments; much longer than the tentacles, each average
one when laid back along body ordinarily passing over three or three
and a half segments. Neurocirri short, stout, fusiform. Body slender,
narrowed moderately at the ends, elsewhere of nearly uniform width.
Type composed of seventy-three segments.

Length, near 20 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 148.

Littoral zone.


_Pionosyllis lucida_ sp. nov.

Readily differentiated from _P. elongata_, which it resembles in its
pale, translucent appearance, in having the distal appendage of setae
more typical, being of a decidedly more elongate and erect form which
also differs from that of _pigmentata_. From the latter differing
conspicuously in appearance in lacking all dark pigment. Notocirri
tapering distad, with apical region slender and pointed; long,
exceeding the width of the body and consisting of up to forty-five
articles. Differing from _pigmentata_ in the form of the neurocirri
which are more uniform in diameter, subcylindric rather than fusiform;
normally extending more or less beyond the tip of the parapodium.
Prostomium short. Eyes reddish; those of first pair larger than the
second; second eye on each side almost directly mesad of the first but
only a little caudad of it. The median tentacle farther forward than in
_pigmentata_, well in front of the eyes, its anterior edge being nearly
in line with the caudal margins of the paired tentacles; composed of
twenty-eight or more short articles. Paired tentacles much shorter and
also more slender; composed of about twenty articles. Palpi fused at
base as usual; narrower distally than in _pigmentata_. The types are
incomplete caudally; but the body is evidently slender. One specimen
8 mm. long consists of forty-three segments; and a second, somewhat
thicker one, of nearly the same length consists of thirty-seven. The
width is near 1 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 180.


_Hesperalia_ gen. nov.

Palpi thick, fused at base only to middle of length. Pharynx straight.
Proboscis unarmed (?). Tentacles three, attenuated, more or less
obviously jointed. Eyes two pairs; large. Tentacular cirri two pairs.
Parapodia uniramous with setae all compound, or in the epitokous phase
with long simple natatory setae in notopodia of middle region of body.
Appendage of compound setate short, bidentate. Neurocirri present,
thick, rounded. Notocirri on side of body above parapodia; filiform;
more or less segmented. A large quadrate membrane or flap projecting
from anterior edge of peristomium forward over caudal region of
prostomium.

_Genotype._--_H. californiensis_ sp. nov.


_Hesperalia californiensis_ sp. nov.

Body rather stout for a syllid, more as in Hesionidae; broadest and
deepest anteriorly, continuously narrowing caudal to the pointed
posterior end. The color of the dorsum is blackish, with pale
transverse lines in the intersegmental furrows and bisecting each
somite which under the lens thus appears double. Parapodia and cirri
typically pale fulvous and the venter either similar or approaching the
dorsum in color. Prostomium very short, sunk in the first body ring
and almost completely overlapped by the quadrate flap from the latter,
this flap extending over the bases of the tentacles in the type. Palpi
stout, presenting two main lobes fused to their apices or nearly so,
and on each of these an ectodistal lobe projecting ventrocephalad,
these distal lobes wholly free from each other. Tentacles appearing
nearly smooth; tapered; the median exceeding the lateral in length.
Eyes large; in type orange colored; the two on each side contiguous or
nearly so; posterior ones nearer together, each beneath edge of the
quadrate peristomial flap, while the anterior ones are in line with
base of median tentacle. Tentacular cirri of same form as tentacles
but longer. Neurocirri thick, short, distally rounded. Natocirri
long, filiform, tapering distad, weakly ringed; showing a tendency to
alternate in height on the sides of the body, the first being notably
farther distad than the second, the third than the second and fourth,
etc. Setae numerous; the appendage short, falcate, with tip simple, but
a slender tooth near middle of curved edge. Segments short, crowded,
near one hundred in number.

Length of type, 21 mm.; greatest width, 2.2 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 149.

Taken in August, 1914.


_Hesperalia nans_ sp. nov.

The type of this species is in the epitkous phase. The middle region
of the body bears notopodeal fasciæ of long, fine, simple, natatory
setae in addition to the compound neuropodials. The appendage of the
compound setae differs from that of _californiensis_ in having the
accessory tooth farther distad, well beyond the middle of the concave
edge, whereas in the other species it is normally rather proximad of
the middle. In the present species the prostomium is proportionately
larger, less covered by the peristomial flap which does not extend over
the base of the median tentacle. The palpi are not fused so far distad,
being united only at base; they present below on each a large distal
lobe similar to that in the other species. Eyes with prominent lenses;
large; those on each side sub-contiguous. Median tentacle in line with
the centers of the anterior eyes; short and pointed, shorter than the
width of the prostomium. Paired tentacles a little shorter than the
median; each attached in front of the median at a point midway between
the latter and the anterior eye. Tentacular cirri much longer than the
tentacles, attenuated distad, pointed. The notocirri are all similarly
attenuated and run out to a rather fine point. Neurocirri very thick,
conical, each with a black dot near middle. Contrasting with the
preceding species in color in having the dorsum in general light,
fulvous, in part slightly dusky, with a series of dark, blackish,
transverse lines across dorsum, there being four somites between
each two dark lines. The body is narrowed toward both ends; venter
flat and dorsum strongly arched; hesioniform. Because of the broken
condition of the type the number of segments is uncertain, but is near
seventy-five.

Greatest width, exclusive of parapodia, 1.5 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 150.

Dredged August 27, 1917.


_Campesyllis_ gen. nov.

Like _Streptosyllis_ in having the pharynx strongly sinuous and unarmed
and in lacking nuchal flaps such as characterize _Amblyosyllis_. It
differs from the former genus in having only composite setae and in
having these of the ordinary structure, the appendage of a simple,
fringed form not covered by a membrane. Eyes two pairs instead of
three. Tentacular cirri two pairs. These, as also the tentacles and
notocirri, short, articulated. Neurocirri attached proximally.

_Genotype._--_C. minor_ sp. nov.


_Campesyllis minor_ sp. nov.

The type of this small form is only 2.5 mm. long. The pharynx is
strongly sinuous. The palpi are contiguous throughout and are fused for
most of length though a median furrow or sulcus above and one below run
to base; projecting forward; together they narrow distad, with outline
triangular; shorter than prostomium. Eyes two pairs, well separated,
subequal, forming a nearly straight transverse row a little in front of
the peristomium. Median tentacle attached far back between posterior
eyes; short, a little exceeding prostomium and palpi together. Lateral
tentacles also short, each attached at cephaloectal corner with the
prostomium bulging forward between them. Tentacular cirri and notocirri
also short, the latter in anterior region about equalling half the
width of the body proper and not extending much beyond the tips of
the setae; joints short, near fifteen or less in number. Neurocirri
subcylindric, slender, reaching ends of parapodia. Setae transparent;
end of shaft but little enlarged, its articular edge very oblique;
appendage long and slender, the tip curved, the edge strongly fringed.
Body ventrally flat, convex dorsally, strongly narrowed caudad.

Taken in a sabellid colony.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 151.


NEREIDÆ


_Nereis latescens_ sp. nov.

Allied to _N. vexillosa_ (Grube) but a much smaller species readily
distinguishable superficially through the presence of purplish markings
on the prostomium and anterior segments, by the form of the appendages,
and particularly by the presence on region V of the proboscis of a
single large conical tooth such as is present in various epitokes.
The prostomium is marked above by a large purplish area germinate by
a narrow median longitudinal yellow line. Eyes black. On the anterior
segments, above on each side a transverse purplish stripe along
anterior and one along posterior border and across the dorsal region, a
shorter but broader stripe a little in front of the middle of segment.
The body otherwise yellowish. Eyes exceptionally large, and those of
each side very close together. Tentacles close together, slenderly
cylindrical, moderately narrowing distad, shorter than prostomium
and not extending beyond end of proximal joint of palpi. Paragnatha
in general as in _vexillosa_; area I with but a single tooth; II,
III and IV with numerous teeth in a patch on each; V with a single
exceptionally large tooth; VI with four teeth in a quadrangle; VII
and VIII with teeth in a band across ventral and lateral surface in
which the proximal ventral teeth are smaller than the distal as in
_vexillosa_. Peristomium shorter than prostomium and than the next
two somites combined; divided by a transverse furrow. Tentacular
cirri short; the ventral ones subequal, less than half the length of
the dorsals, which are also nearly equal to each other; more or less
flattened; cirrophores short. A typical parapodium presents three stout
conical lobes additional to the setigerous ones; of these the dorsal
one in the anterior region is stoutest, but becomes more slender in
the posterior region. Both notocirri and neurocirri proportionately
very slender. Anal cirri about as long as the dorsal tentacular cirri,
flattened.

Number of segments, sixty-two.

Length of types, 20 to 23 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 152.

Taken among hydroids.


_Nereis mediator_ sp. nov.

This species also resembles _N. vexillosa_, though apparently a
normally much smaller form. It is, so far as evidence at present
accessible to me indicates, distinguishable from that species in having
a narrow band across the anterior border of the dental band of VII
composed of much finer denticles instead of having the anterior teeth
large and the posterior ones reduced. The paragnatha are fewer than in
_vexillosa_, those of II, e. g., being in fewer (usually three), less
oblique and more separated series and those of VI in all the typical
specimens being three in a triangle or four instead of from six to
nine or more in a crowded patch. No colored markings. The tentacles
proportionately thicker and obviously closer together. Tentacular cirri
shorter. Notocirral laminae of the middle and posterior regions much
less elongate and flattened with their ventral conical lobe much more
pronounced throughout, more as in the smaller specimens of _vexillosa_.
Anal cirri short. Number of segments up to seventy.

Length, to 60 mm.

Type--M. C. T. 2, 153.

This is doubtless the same form as recorded by Dr. Moore from San
Diego as _N. vexillosa_ in Proc. Acad. Sci. Phil., 1909, p. 244.
It is undoubtedly close to that species; but as all the specimens
which I have seen, and apparently also those studied by Moore,
differ constantly in the features above mentioned from specimens of
_vexillosa_ from more northern localities on the Pacific coast, etc.,
the form is maintained as distinct. A single heteronereis female is
among the specimens from Laguna Beach.


LEODICIDÆ


_Leodice monilifer_ sp. nov.

Yellow in color. Body strongly narrowed caudad. Prostomium short and
broad. The palpal lobes large and rounded, bulging conspicuously
forward and ventrad; separated by a deep furrow. Tentacles in a
slightly curved transverse line, the outer paired tentacle on each
side lying a little farther forward than the inner. Ceratophores very
short and not broader than bases of styles, exceeded by the first
segment of style which about equals the next two in length. The styles
in general strongly moniliform, the articles short and well rounded.
The styles in types short but not in any case certainly complete; the
number of articles present from nine to twelve. The peristomium much
longer than the prostomium than which it is also clearly wider and
higher; entire second somite very short, not more than one-fourth
as long as I. Nuchal cirri short and conical, much shorter than the
peristomium, transversely wrinkled or sometimes distinctly annulated.
Notocirri slenderly conical, becoming more slender in posterior region
as usual; with some weak encircling wrinkles but not distinctly divided
into articles. Branchiæ begin as single filaments on IX or sometimes
on VIII. Branchiæ of X each consisting of two filaments. The number
in several of the succeeding branchiæ increases to three, then again
falling to two, and, finally, the last eight pairs or so are again
simple filaments. The last branchiæ in the type occur on XXXII. Anal
cirri short, slenderly conical. Maxillae strongly chitinized; brown,
with edges in part black. In maxillae II the right plate has six large
teeth, the outer left plate four and the odd or inner left plate seven
or eight. III with nine teeth or crenulatious. Number of segments in
type one hundred and nine.

Length, 43 mm.; greatest width, exclusive of parapodia, 2.6 mm. An
incomplete larger specimen has a width of 3.2 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 154.

Taken among holdfasts of kelp. (C. F. Baker, June 30, 1911.)


_Arabella lagunae_ sp. nov.

As compared with _A. attenuata_ Treadwell, this is a smaller species
differing in appearance in being brown of a decided greenish tinge,
excepting on the prostomium and at the caudal end. The prostomium is
less narrowed cephalad, being more broadly rounded across anterior end.
Median eyes not exceeding the lateral in size. Maxillae V represented
by simple small hooks. IV with five teeth of which the most ectal
(upper) is long and slender, the two next much shorter and finer and
the two innermost closer together. III with fine teeth similarly
arranged and formed. Maxillae II nearly symmetrical; the left one with
seven teeth of which the most anterior one is much largest, the right
with an additional small tooth in front of (ectad of) the large one;
neither of the plates extending caudad of the anterior end of the
dental series of I. I with seven or eight well developed teeth; the
carriers very long and slender, black throughout. In the paraphodia the
posterior lobe is well developed, stout and conical, distally somewhat
blunt or rounded, extended ectad or caudoectad and is always shorter
than the setae. Setae all simple, limbate, in a single series of mostly
six in the middle region of the body. Setae with the usual double or
sigmoidal curve over the limbate part, the first bend or geniculation
unusually strong, angular; tip becoming fine and hair-like. Body
tapering caudad, pointed at the posterior end, ending in two blunt
lobes. Number of segments in the type one hundred and ninety-one.

Length, 46 mm.; width, exclusive of parapodia, 2 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 155.

Taken at the shore "under rocks."


_Arabella mimetica_ sp. nov.

Resembling the preceding species though smaller and more slender.
Superficially differing obviously in the form of the prostomium which
is much more narrowed distad and is neither depressed nor furrowed
either dorsally or ventrally. Eyes smaller, obscure. Maxillae
resembling those of the other species in general, but differing
strongly in the second pair in which the right plate, instead of
being symmetrical with the left one, is decidedly long and extends
far proximad along the dental line of I and bears about fifteen teeth
as against only six on the left one and eight on the corresponding
plate in _lagunae_. Maxillae I on right side with nine teeth, on left
apparently with seven. Maxillae III with teeth in arrangement as in
_lagunae_ but only four in number and different in all being blunt and
shorter. IV as in the other species but teeth four instead of five. The
number of segments in the type is near one hundred and sixty-five.

Length, 40 mm.; width, 1.1 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 156.

Taken among holdfasts of kelp. (C. F. Baker, June 30, 1911.) Also a
small specimen taken August 2, 1917, by Prof. Hilton.


_Biborin_ gen. nov.

Setae all simple, limbate, well developed. First two segments
achaetous. Eyes none. Maxillae absent, but the mandibles normally
developed, the wall of the alimentary canal opposite the latter simply
thickened. Notocirri rudimentary.


_Biborin ecbola_ sp. nov.

The type as preserved is greyish brown of a dull bluish green cast.
A note with the specimen also states that it is greenish in life.
The body is strongly attenuated and pointed caudad, more moderately
cephalad. The prostomium larger than wide and somewhat longer than the
first two segments; subconically narrowed distad, apically rounded,
flattened dorsoventrally. The two achaetous segments subequal in length
or the second slightly longer, not produced forward below. Mandibles
short and broad, not toothed, the edges meeting at an acute angle in
front; the caudal stems shorter behind point of separation than the
blades in front of this point, rather slender, blunt behind. Posterior
lobes of parapodia subcylindrical, a little conically narrowed distad
but with apex well rounded, extending ectad or caudoectad; in middle
region of body reaching to or a little beyond middle of longer setae,
the setae relatively shorter in anterior region. Setae all simple and
limbate with the usual double curve, the first curve or angulation
obviously less marked than in _A. lagunae_, which form this species
superficially resembles. Number of segments in type, two hundred and
seventy-seven.

Length, 92 mm.; width without parapodia, 2.2 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 157.

Taken among Phyllospadix, September 17, 1917.


GLYCERIDÆ


_Glycera exigua_ sp. nov.

A small species easily recognizable among the known forms of the
California coast by the character of the parapodia. Each of these
present three lips, two anterior and one posterior; all three lobes
triangular, pointed distad, with the posterior one fully equalling the
other two in length. The neurocirrus is also triangular in outline.
The natocirrus is reduced to a small rounded or nodular form slightly
above base of parapodium. Branchiæ simple cylindrical filaments, each
attached toward distal end of parapodium above as in _G. alba_ and _G.
longipinnis_; the first occurring on or near somite XXX, short, in
actual length not greater than parapodium exclusive of terminal lips
and falling much short of reaching ends of setae; absent from last
twelve segments or so and those just in front of this caudal region
much reduced. Prostomium of usual general form; consisting of fourteen
or fifteen rings. Proboscis long; weakly longitudinally ridged and
densely finely papillose. Body strongly narrowed from the anterior
region caudad, the caudal end slenderly pointed. Segments biannulate.
Number of segments in the type near one hundred and thirty.

Length, 26 mm.; width, 1.5 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 158.

Balboa, December 26, 1917.


_Glycera basibranchia_ sp. nov.

Resembles _exigua_ in having the branchiæ in the form of a series of
single, simple filaments but readily distinguished in having each
branchia attached at base of parapodium on the dorsocaudal surface
just ectad of the notocirrus instead of at the distal end above. The
branchiæ begin on the twenty-ninth setigerous somite and continue to
about the one hundred and twenty-ninth, decreasing in size at the two
ends of the series. In the middle region they are cylindrical, distally
rounded, and transparent, and at most do not surpass the distal end of
the parapodium, most of these being obviously shorter than this in the
preserved specimen. Also decidedly different from _exigua_ in having
four lobes at the distal end of each parapodium, two postsetal and two
presetal. These are narrowly triangular, distally pointed, with the
presetal lobes thicker and more conical and decidedly longer than the
postsetal. The short, distally rounded notocirri are attached at the
base of the parapodia above in the angle between the latter and the
body wall. Neurocirri distally subcylindric, resembling the distal
parapodial lobes. The prostomium distinctly ringed to near middle,
the basal half showing five rings while the distal half in the type
is only vaguely annulate, though with indications of apparently seven
nearly fused rings, making the total number twelve. Proboscis long,
densely papillose. Type incomplete caudally; one hundred and forty-five
segments retained.

Length (not quite complete), 36 mm.; greatest width, 1.3 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 159.

A note gives the color in life as light, the red blood showing through
as usual in the family.


_Glycera verdescens_ sp. nov.

A very small form differing from the two preceding in wholly lacking
branchiæ. The parapodia are strikingly different in that the postsetal
lobe is either wholly absent, as in anterior region, or is represented
by a single, small, pointed process, while there are two presetal
lobes which are long and subcylindrical or finger-like and of which
the ventral one is ordinarily the larger. The notocirrus is small and
occupies the usual place in the angle between the dorsal surface of the
parapodium and the body-wall. Neurocirrus slenderly conical, darkened
distad as are also the presetal lobes. The slenderly conical prostomium
showing twelve annuli. Type at present showing a distinctly greenish
tinge. Type incomplete caudally, sixty-nine segments retained, the
length being 13 mm., width, 1.1 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 160.


ARICIIDÆ


_Nainereis hespera_ sp. nov.

This is apparently a smaller species than _longa_ or _robusta_ and is
composed of fewer segments. It differs from those species in having the
anterior division of the body composed of only nineteen segments and
in having the first branchiæ appear on the thirteenth or fourteenth
segment. The prostomium is broadly subtrapeziform, narrowing forward
and with the anterior margin varying from slightly convex to mesally
indented as is the case in the type; dorsal surface nearly flat, simply
marked with two furrows, or sometimes with the median caudal region
between furrows elevated. Peristomium with anterior margin above more
or less concave, its median length about equal to that of the second
segment, which is also ordinarily bowed caudad. In the neuropodia
of the anterior region the postsetal processes are broad, distally
rounded, thick lips which are prominent; in the posterior region these
become narrowly conical, elongate, distally pointed processes. The
postsetal processes of the notopodia in the anterior region are thick,
short cones which increase in length in going caudad, in the posterior
region being very elongate. The branchiæ begin on the thirteenth or
fourteenth segment as short processes but become abruptly longer,
basally thick and distally pointed processes much thicker than the
postsetal processes of the notopodia and exceeding these in length;
they are widely separated and, while curving in somewhat mesad, do
not come in contact, leaving much of the middorsal region naked. They
continue to the end of the body. The neuropodial setæ of the anterior
region are arranged in three subvertical series and form a patch twice
as high (dorsoventrally) as long (cephalocaudally). The stout setæ
of the posterior row are mostly four in number, less commonly three
or five. These coarse setæ are not at all clavate as in elongata and
are not roughened or cross-ridged above the curve as in robusta; the
terminal region above the curve longer than in the later species.
The setæ of the other series are more curved than in robusta and are
abruptly contracted farther from the body, the contraction stronger
but the one edge similarly roughened or denticlated with cross lines.
At the ventral end of the series a small patch of ordinary, camerated,
capillary setæ resembling the notopodials. The body is broad anteriotly
and narrows to the posterior end. Dorsal surface flat and the ventral
convex as usual. Number of segments in the type one hundred and
thirty-six. Color in general pale brown; at black spot at base of each
branchia at least those of posterior region, in front and behind and
the proximal part of branchia often darkened.

Length, 27 mm.; greatest width, 2.4 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 161.


_Scoloplos acmeceps_ sp. nov.

Resembling _S. armiger_ (O. F. Müller) in general structure. A less
deeply pigmented species easily distinguished from this northern
form in wholly lacking the ventral papillæ (neurocirri) present in
the latter below the parapodia of about the eighteenth to thirtieth
segments. The prostomium is similarly elongate and pointed but is more
slender; it is borne at the end of the peristomium which has the form
of a truncate cone. The branchiæ begin anteriorly in the same way as
very slight elevations and increase quickly to long ligulate forms;
but the first one appears on the sixteenth or seventeenth setigerous
segment instead of on the twelfth or thirteenth as usual in armiger.
The fully developed branchiæ are obviously narrower than typical for
the latter species. The lobes of the parapodia are in general similar
though they do not become obvious so far forward. In the second
division of the body the ventral lobe is similarly elongate and bifid
at the tip with the inner or more dorsal lobe the longer; but the lobes
are characteristically more divergent, thinner and more slender. The
first bifid neuropodial lobes appear on the twenty-first setigerous
segment. The dorsal lobe similar in form to that in armiger. Caudal
end of all the types missing.

Greatest width, 2 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 162.

Balboa (Sept. 10, 1917).


FLABELLIGERIDÆ


_Flabelligera haerens_ sp. nov.

This species resembles _F. commensalis_ Moore in the approximation of
the neuropodia though these are apparently not so close as in that
species and are at no place actually contiguous though nearly so in
the extreme caudal region. In front of this they remain a uniform
distance apart, which is less than the length of a somite, forward to
about the tenth somite from where the rows diverge gradually forward.
The notopodia more widely separated, the rows diverging cephalad from
near the tenth somite, always much closer to each other than to the
neuropodia. Ventral surface flattened or weakly concave, the dorsal
surface also flattened but slightly convex, while the sides are
convex; the body in part is slightly compressed from side to side, in
cross-section subquadrate to subcircular; widest in middle region and
narrowing both ways, more strongly so caudad, subfusiform. Collar lobe
deeply and widely incised dorsally and ventrally; the lobe on each
side bearing a series of numerous long cross-striated setæ which are
reddish brown in color and are stouter than the ordinary notopodials.
The notopodials are simple, finely tapered, colorless setae. There is a
single seta in each neuropodium, this being in the form of a very stout
hook; the color is dark throughout; the transverse terminal portion of
the hook is longer and more slender and acute than in commensalis and
the pseudo-joint is farther proximad of the curved region; the shaft is
bent caudad at the level of the joint, the hook proper curving mesad.
The entire surface is densely papillose. The setæ of the collar are
cloaked by a dense growth of long filiform papillæ; with large clavate
tips, these papillæ approximating the setæ in length. The papillæ also
cluster densely about the notopodia, these papillæ having similar
clavate tips. The papillæ of the general surface of dorsum, venter and
sides are much shorter. Color nearly uniform greyish brown. Number of
segments in type, forty-nine.

Length, 13 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 163.

Taken in holdfasts of kelp, August 12, 1917.


CAPITELLIDÆ


_Natomastus angulatus_ sp. nov.

In comparison with <i>N. tenuis</i> Moore, known from San Diego, this species
differs in the form of the thorax, which is strongly angulate instead
of terete the sides and venter being flat and the dorsum usually but
little convex, so that the cross-section is nearly quadrate; also in
having the segments and their subdivisions sharply separated with
the posterior subsegment in each case much shorter than the anterior
instead of equal to it. In the type the posterior thoracic somites
are twice or more as long as wide, but in some paratypes the relative
length is much less. Thorax narrowed caudad. The abdomen in its
anterior part obviously thicker than the thorax in its widest part.
The prostomium characteristic, showing two distinct regions, a broad
posterior one with convex, anteriorly converging sides and a narrower,
subconical, palpoidal terminal part sharply set off from the basal.
Segments of abdomen irregularly multiannulate, sulci deep and surface
usually appearing strongly rugose and uneven.

Length near 160 mm.; greatest width of abdomen, 1.4 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 164.

Taken in sand and in growths of eel grass. The color is noted as
reddish in life, as usual in the family.


SPIONOIDEA


_Morants_ gen. nov.

Body with an anterior region of fifteen setigerous somites separated
from a larger posterior region by a specialized somite, the sixteenth.
Prostomium with a lateral process or horn on each side in front,
notched in front at middle. Eyes none in genotype. Dorsal cirri present
in addition to branchiæ on the first four setigerous somites. Notopodia
with simple capillary setæ throughout. Anterior neuropodia with
capillary setæ, but others also with crochets. Anal. cirri two.


_Genotype_--_M. duplex_ sp. nov.

_Morants duplex_ sp. nov.

Palpal processes lost from type. Proboscis as protruded short, distally
expanded over proximal region. Parapodia dorsolateral in position, the
anterior ones very thick. Principal postsetal lobe rising above into
a branchial process which is short anteriorly but in posterior region
is much longer, slender and subulate. Mesad of the branchial process
of each parapodium of the first four pairs is a cirrus or cirriform
process. The inferior setæ of the most anterior parapodia' much shorter
than the dorsals, strongly curved. In the first notopodial fascia a
much stouter, aciculiform, setæ which is uncate. Crochets with strongly
narrowed neck; with two curved teeth at distal end above the beak which
is decurved; in posterior region few in number, commonly four in a
series. Anal cirri slender, filiform, much longer than the preceding
branchiæ; one in the type has a short spur near its base. Total number
of segments about one hundred and sixteen.

Length, 21.5 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 165.

Balboa.

The tubes adhere closely to the body. Their walls of fine sand.


AMPHARETIDÆ


_Schistocomus_ gen. nov.

Like Phyllocomus in lacking tentacles and postbranchial spines, in
bearing fifteen pairs of fasciæ of capillary setæ and four pairs of
branchiæ. It differs from that genus in having the branchiæ of two
types, one pair being of the ordinary, smooth, simple, subulate form
and the other three with the edges divided, two pinnately, bearing two
close series of lamellar branches, and one with an essentially single
series of branches in the genotype.


_Genotype_--_S. hiltoni_ sp. nov.

_Schistocomus hiltoni_ sp. nov.

The body has the ordinary general form, being widest near the fifth
setigerous segment from where it narrows continuously to the slender,
pointed cauda. Dorsum convex, venter less so, the latter with a double
median longitudinal furrow in the posterior region. Prostomium
projecting forward as a simple hood with rounded anterior corners and
the median region of anterior edge nearly straight; dorsal surface
in type longitudinally wrinkled. Ventrally the peristomium projects
forward between the sides of the prostomium in a conspicuous lobe or
lower lip which narrows somewhat distad and has the distal margin
convex; surface longitudinally wrinkled. Second somite achaetous. The
third bearing the first fasciæ of simple setæ, the sixth the first
uncini. Of the pinnate branchia one pair occur on the third setigerous
somite and one on the second while the branchiæ with single series of
branches in which the branches are less lamellate, are on the second
(first presetal) somite, the simple branchiæ arising on the first
setigerous somite. The first branchiæ are attached near the middle of
the dorsum, the others laterad close above the parapodia. The first
and especially the second or simple branchiæ extending forward beyond
the anterior edge of the prostomium. Color light fulvous or in part
greyish. Number of segments near fifty-five.

Length, 22 mm.; greatest width, 3 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 166.

Taken at Laguna Beach, Sept. 15, 1917.

The tube in which the type was found is 35 mm. long. The wall is
thickened by the adhesion of fine particles of sand, fragments of
shell, etc.


TEREBELLIDÆ


_Leaena videns_ sp. nov.

The prostomium extends as a convex hood or inverted scoop above the
mouth; along its posterior border is a series of long, crowded,
tentacles. The prostomial fold behind the tentacles is crossed by a
transverse band of distinct eyes, the band narrow above and widening on
each side. Mouth a crescentic slit with corners curved caudad; bordered
behind by a thick lip the anterior median edge of which is truncate.
No dorsal cirriform process on III or any other segment, all being
wholly smooth. A characteristic of the species is the large number of
setigerous segments, at least thirty-one being present (IV-XXXIII) in
the type, and possibly more. The setæ differs from those of _nuda_
in their longer fine tips and more geniculate appearance at base of
this region. The uncini are characterized by an exceptionally long
beak which, beyond its strongly curved base is straight; the sinus
narrow, the process arising near its middle, low obtuse; vertex not
comparatively high, crossed by mostly four series of denticles; body of
uncinus rather narrow, the shoulder on convex side much farther toward
the end than, e.g., in _nuda_ and well below level of bottom of sinus.
The type is incomplete, only near thirty-eight segments being present.
The color is noted as pinkish in life. At present it is fulvous in the
type.

Length of incomplete specimen not in excess of 12 mm.; greatest width,
.8 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 167.


_Pista fratrella_ sp. nov.

This form seems to be close to _P. alata_ Moore. The type, which is
much smaller than that of _alata_, differs in various details from the
description of the latter. The principal lateral wings are confined
to the third segment and are united across the dorsum of third somite
instead of involving the anterior border of IV and crossing the latter
above; connecting dorsal fold low and lacking any forwardly directed
process; the wing rises as a high, rounded lobe on each side just
below level of setigerous tubercles, rising high above the middorsal
surface. In addition to the prominent wings on III there is on IV on
each side a much lower ridge or wing paralleling that on III, this not
more prominent above. Unlike those of _alata_, somites II and III are
not confounded laterally but are distinct throughout. Prostomium short.
Tentacles mostly lost in type; rather slender, not long, apparently
in but a single transverse series. Peristomium deeply excavated at
middle below, the bottom of the excavation rounded and the peristomium
produced on each side of this into the usual large lobes. The branchiæ,
as in the genotype and other species, strongly asymmetrically
developed. The right anterior branchia is much the largest, the trunk
very long, with the left anterior much smaller. Of the posterior pair,
the right, unlike that of _alata_, is also much larger than the left
one. In the type the sternal plates are not sharply differentiated.
The manubriate uncini of V have the general form of those in _alata_,
but the bulge below the beak is much larger and more rounded with the
subrostral tooth more obtuse and nearer the middle of the oblique edge;
beak less divergent from manubrium; vertex with three transverse series
of denticles. The color in the abdominal region light fulvous, in the
thoracic darker with a narrow brownish stripe along caudal border of
each segment laterally and ventrally. Type not quite complete caudally,
retaining eighty somites.

Length, 36 mm.; greatest width, 2.8 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 168.

The wall of the tube is composed of sand and shell fragments.


_Naneva_ gen. nov.

Prostomium short; with numerous tentacular filaments. Uncini avicular
and of same form throughout. Setæ beginning on third somite; tips
simple. Uncini beginning on the fourth somite. No lateral foliaceous
lobes on the anterior segments. Branchiæ two pairs; branched; attached
on somites II and III.

_Genotype_--_N. hespera_ sp. nov.

Differs from Thelepus and Athelepus in having the branchiæ branched
instead of simple and in having the uncini begin on IV.


_Naneva hespera_ sp. nov.

The prostomium forms a prominent upper lip of which the anterior border
is turned upward all along, leaving a deep concavity between it and
the upcurving posterior fold along which the tentacles are attached.
Because of their curled and tangled condition the precise number of
tentacles was not ascertained, but is about twelve on each side; they
are long, some when fully extended being 15 mm. in length. No eyes
were detected in the type. Peristomium forming a lower lip of but
moderate length with straight anterior edge; scarcely twice as long
as the second somite below. First branchia on each side attached to
second somite just in front and mesad of the first setigerous tubercle.
The second branchia attached just caudad of the first on the caudal
region of somite III. Both branchiæ very similar, each presenting
three principal branches of which the most mesal is largest; ultimate
branches numerous, rather short. Capillary setæ beginning on III and
continuing to XXVII. The anterior setigerous processes are in the form
of vertical plates with straight truncate, distal edge; but in going
caudad these become reduced finally to slight tubercles, with the first
about equal to half the intervening space and by the seventh equal
to this space, while in the abdominal region the opposite series are
separated merely by the median furrow. Anterior ventral plates strongly
longitudinally furrowed. Capillary setæ narrowly bilimbate, drawn out
into a very fine simple tip. Uncini, at least for the most part, in two
series both in thoracic and in abdominal region; apparently with mostly
three transverse rows of denticles at vertex; beak long, the sinus with
parallel sides, opposite side of body evenly curved, not distinctly
shouldered. Total number of segments in the type, which is complete,
about one hundred and thirty, of which II to XXVII are setigerous. Body
rapidly narrowed to the eighteenth segment, but only very gradually
thereafter.

Length, near 45 mm.; greatest width, 1.8 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 169.

Balboa.


SABELLIDÆ


_Myxicola monacis_ sp. nov.

In size and general appearance resembling _M. pacifica_ Johnson, with
the type of which it has been compared. From that form the present
one may readily be distinguished in having the ventral median process
from the first segment drawn out into a slender entire tip instead of
being broad and presenting distally two angles or lobes; the process
is furrowed longitudinally and the edges are somewhat turned down.
Branchiæ twenty-two pairs. Readily distinguished by the form of the
abdominal uncini. These have the general form of those of _pacifica_
but as a whole are longer with the body proportionately more slender
and its abvertigial end more rounded; the beak is longer and less
divergent, distally curving a little back toward the body; the sides
of the sinus parallel. The body in the type is somewhat fusiform,
being narrowed both ways from the middle but more strongly so caudad.
In a paratype the body is scarcely narrowed cephalad. Body somewhat
depressed dorsoventrally, less terete than in pacifica. Total number of
segments near seventy.

Length of type, exclusive of branchiæ, 40 mm.; greatest width, 6.2 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 170.

Taken from holdfasts of seaweeds.


_Potamilla clara_ sp. nov.

The body in general light brown; but ventrally there is a median
longitudinal fulvous stripe over the ventral plates. The branchiæ are
crossed by a series of dark bands or annuli which fade out proximally,
about three distad of the middle of length being deep and distinct.
There are nineteen pairs of branchial radioles; barbs numerous, densely
arranged to near tip, the naked distal region of axis very short, pale
excepting where partially or completely involved by the transverse dark
bands. Ventral lobes of collar moderate, rounded, edges a little rolled
down; dorsal ends separated; no lateral incisions, being but two-lobed;
not produced forward below, lobes rounded and separated. Thoracic
segments eight. Ventral plates all rectangular, those of the abdomen
divided by the midventral sulcus. Total number of segments, sixty.

Length without branchiæ, 21 mm.; length with branchiæ, 28 mm.; greatest
width, 3 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 171.

Taken on beach at low tide.


_Potamilla omissa_ sp. nov.

The general color is dusky or pale brownish with the anterior ventral
plates lighter and the branchiæ rather weakly transversely banded with
dark. Radioles of branchiæ in a simple series; seventeen pairs. Collar
well developed, produced forward below in two pointed lobes overlapping
at the middle. Eight setigerous thoracic somites. Most dorsal thoracic
setæ in each fascicle long and finely pointed with wings narrow; the
ventral setæ much more numerous, shorter, spatulate, with fine tip.
The uncini have the posterior process very short, rounded at the end,
much shorter and more slender than the neck, which is rather strongly
curved; vertex high and narrowly rounded; beak not strongly depressed.
Type incomplete, only seven of the abdominal segments being present.

Length of first sixteen segments, 15 mm.; including branchiæ, 21 mm.;
width, 2.5 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 172.


_Potamilla colorata_ sp. nov.

The type is notably marked with black pigment; the collar membrane
crossed with a close series of longitudinal dark stripes, one in
line with each radiole and narrowing caudad; the branchiæ crossed
transversely with dark bands. Thoracic somites, more notably the
anterior ones, with a dusky to black band in front of each uncinigerous
torus and a dark spot on the dorsum mesad of the setigerous papilla.
The collar with a dark area ventrad and also dorsad of the fascicle.
Ground color greyish of light brown cast, lacking the yellow dominating
in omissa. Sixteen (or seventeen) pairs of radioles in the branchiæ.
Ventral lobes of collar pointed, widely overlapping in the median
line, dorsal ends free, projecting toward each other in dorsal groove.
Setigerous thoracic somites eight in number. Inferior setæ numerous,
spatulate, usually in two series. Total number of segments present
about fifty-one, a few of the most caudal being lost.

Length, 25 mm.; with branchiæ, 30 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 173.


_Pseudopotamilla paurops_ sp. nov.

A rather slender species with branchiæ of moderate length. Excepting
the eyes with no pigmented markings. Radioles fifteen pairs. Eyes
few, not present on all radioles; where present usually but a single
one on each radiole, in one case two; the eyes deep purple, variable
in side from moderate to small; situated at varying distance between
base and middle of length of radioles. Free dorsal edge of branchial
membrane with two short obtuse lobes overlapping in the middle line.
The dorsal notch in the collar lobe on each side is mesad of the line
of setigerous tubercles, wide open, rectangular or slightly obtuse;
lobe mesad of notch small, anteriorly rounded, the mesal edge extending
into the dorsal furrow; median ventral lobes separated by a narrow
incision, short, the ectal edge passing out in an even concave curve to
the anterior lateral margin. A characteristic feature of the species
is the presence of ten setigerous thoracic somites. Dorsal setæ of the
usual two types of which the upper are much fewer spatulate setæ in two
series with distal expansion broad and wings asymmetrical, tip short.
Total number of segments, seventy-eight.

Length without branchiæ, 31 mm.; with branchiæ, 36 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 174.

Tube tough, corneus.


_Pseudopotamilla parva_ sp. nov.

The type of this species is a small individual which, as preserved,
appears of a uniform dusky color throughout. Branchial radioles
fourteen or fifteen pairs; in a single series, the membrane not
being coiled. No eye spots. Collar with ventral lobes proportionately
long and acute, the dorsal lobes small and approximate. Notopodial
setæ of usual two types; few. Uncini with beak divergent, nearly
horizontal, the "neck" short and the edge of body below bulging much
as in _Paralaonome japonica_. Body furrowed along each side just
above notopodia excepting anteriorly. Ventral plates sharply limited,
elevated; all of abdominal plates bisected by the median longitudinal
sulcus excepting the first one, which is entire. Total number of
somites, fifty-six, of which eight are thoracic.

Length without branchiæ, 12 mm.; with branchiæ, near 15 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 175.

Taken among tufted algæ, June 25, 1911 (C. F. Baker).


_Pseudopotamilla lampra_ sp. nov.

In this form the collar membrane is crossed by a series of longitudinal
dark stripes, one in line with each radiole, as in _Potamilla
colorata_, these narrowing caudad. Branchiæ sometimes mostly dark with
light transverse bands. Anterior thoracic segments darkly pigmented
both above and below, and also along both sides of tori, and most
setigerous papillæ and tori of succeeding regions of body also
surrounded in some degree with a pigmented area. Branchial membrane
with free dorsal edges produced into two lobes on each side, the two of
each pair overlapping, the posterior lobe rounded, the anterior angular
with its caudal margin transverse and the other long and oblique.
Radioles nineteen pairs, several of these at dorsomesal end of series
much reduced. Eyes conspicuous but few, only one, or occasionally two,
on a radiole and some radioles wholly lacking them. This species has
only seven setigerous thoracic somites. Total number of segments, near
ninety-four.

Length, about 28 mm.; with branchiæ, 33 mm.

A note states that this form is pinkish in life. A paratype was taken
"in a large white sponge."

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 176.


_Pseudopotamilla macrops_ sp. nov.

While the type of this species includes only the anterior end of
the body, its characters seem sufficiently marked for subsequent
identification. As in _lampra_, the anterior segments are darkened
with purplish brown pigment, especially adjacent to the setigerous
papillæ and about the tori, the ventral plates, however, remaining
pale. Branchial membrane also pigmented caudally, and the branchiæ
transversely banded. Only two eyes on each side are present in the
type, a single one each on the second and third radiole from the dorsal
end of the series. These eyes are exceptionally large and prominent,
much larger than in any of the other species here recorded, embracing
practically the entire width of the stalk. The free dorsal edges of
the branchial membrane nearly straight, each with only a very slight
angulation near its anterior end, not being truly lobate. Nine pairs
of radioles. Minor dorsal lobes of collar prominent, produced well
forward, curving a little mesad distally, the mesal edge reflected down
the dorsal groove as usual.

Width, .75 mm. Length of branchiæ, 2.5 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 177.


_Pseudopotamilla scotia_ sp. nov.

Differing from the other species here described in having nine
setigerous thoracic somites. Anterior somites of thorax darkened
above, down the sides on both sides of the tori and also more or less
ventrally with purplish brown pigment. Processes or lobes on free edge
of branchial membrane above almost of same form as in _P. lampra_ and
similarly overlapping. Nineteen pairs of branchial radioles. No eyes.
Ventral lobes of collar prolonged, subacute, not overlapping. In the
dorsal fasciæ of the ordinary thoracic somites the dorsal setæ are
arranged mostly in more or less single, curved, longitudinal series,
the clavate ventrals being arranged in two vertical series at right
angles to the line of the dorsals. Pennoned setæ of the uncinigerous
tori very prominent. Only a few of the most anterior abdominal segments
present in type.

Greatest width, 2 mm. Length of branchiæ, 4 mm.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 178.

Taken in a large white sponge.


SERPULIDÆ

_Eupomatus intereans_ sp. nov.

This species is separated from _E. uncinatus_ (Philippi) with some
hesitation since specimens of the latter are not at hand for direct
comparison. It would seem, however, to be clearly different, to judge
from Ehler's figure, in the form of the uncini. These are much broader
(i.e., at right angles to the dental line), the base projecting
conspicuously but not forming an angulate shoulder as in _E. gracilis_,
being nearly evenly and rather broadly rounded. The teeth are mostly
seven in number, the end below the last of these set off as usual,
rounded. The upper collar setæ coarse, with two teeth or spurs at
base of the slender tip, these commonly more or less unequal in size.
Branchiæ thirteen pairs. Operculum in general as in _uncinatus_; width
of principal expansion 1.25 mm.; the latter even, by narrowing into the
stalk, the rim with thirty-eight projecting acute teeth or serrations
which are straight or very nearly so, not at all uncate as in uncinatus
in which they are also fewer (thirty). Inner crown of eleven spines
each tapered evenly to an acute tip and bent in abruptly toward the
center above, the proximal portion being erect and ordinarily parallel
with the others. No process or series of processes detected within
this crown, the base from which these arise being evenly concave on
its distal surface and convex on the proximal. Spines of the inner
crown dark brown proximally as is the entire basal plate from which
they arise, the remaining part of spines light brown. Operculum proper
nearly black below teeth on proximal surface of the expansion and on
adjacent part of stalk the remaining part of which is white; distal
surface of funnel pale. Branchiæ and body in general pale, unmarked or
some of the branchiæ with a blackish mark on stalk toward distal end.
Thoracic setigerous somites seven. Abdominal segments, ninety.

Type--M. C. Z. 2, 178.

Length exclusive of branchiæ, 20 mm.; to end of operculum, about 24 mm.
Width, 1.5 mm.




The Nervous System of Cæcum Californicum

WILLIAM A. HILTON

(_Contribution from the Zoological Laboratory of Pomona College_)


Specimens of this little gastropod mollusc from 2 to 3 mm. in length
were the material for the study. Specimens were fixed and sectioned
whole and a few good series were obtained.

It seems rather remarkable that so small a species should have such
a high organization of the nervous system. The ganglia are large in
proportion to the size of the animal and well developed. In all cases
the exact limits of the nerves and connectives were not determined, but
the chief ganglia were easily found.

Quite well towards the head end a pair of buccal ganglia were found,
these were small, widely separated and possessed only a few nerve
cells. At about this level in cross sections the eyes make their
appearance, one on each side. They are simple, quite large and well
provided with pigment. Below the level of the eyes and the buccal
ganglia, on the dorsal side of the esophagus, the much larger cerebral
ganglia make their appearance. These probably are connected with the
eyes but the connections were not clearly seen in the sections. The
cerebral ganglia are closely united along the middle line. They occupy
more than one half the diameter of the entire animal. The more caudal
ends of these ganglia separate and run down, a little lateral to the
esophagus.

Below the esophagus and a little below the chief level of the cerebral
ganglia, a region of more ventral masses of nerve tissue is reached.
There are two ganglia on each side, a lateral pair somewhat smaller
than the more ventral. The lateral are the pleural and the ventral are
the pedal ganglia. The pedal ganglia are closely pressed against each
other in the middle line, but not fused, they are much larger than
any of the other ganglionic pairs and of a more complicated cell and
fibrous structure.

Beyond the region of large ganglia and slightly farther towards the
other end of the animal, on the right side, a small visceral ganglion
makes its appearance. Farther down on the left side a much smaller
group of cells seems to indicate another ganglion of the viscera.

[Illustration: Explanation of Figures]

    Fig. 1 Camera lucida sketch of cerebral ganglia of Cæcum. The
        dorsal side is up. ×300

    Fig. 2. Left pleural ganglion of Cæcum. ×300.

    Fig. 3. Left pedal ganglion of Cæcum. ×300.

    Fig. 4. Reconstruction from Cæcum, showing position of eyes and
        ganglia viewed from the ventral side. ×70.




Amphipods from Laguna Beach


The following list is from the collections of 1917, or that part of it
sent to the U. S. Nat. museum for determination.

    _Aruga oculata_ Holmes. L. 6 mm., white with red on the head. From
        algæ. Another white specimen of 8 mm. Dredged at 10 f.

    _Paraphoxus_ sp. L. 9 mm. Light colored.

    _Ipiplateia_ sp. Red. L. 10 mm.

    _Lilljeborgia brevicornis_ Bruz. One specimen dredged Aug. 28. Head
        white upper half, lower half pink. Lower part of body pink,
        upper white. L. 6 mm. Another head end of body red, caudal end
        white. L. 4 mm. Dredged Aug. 11 and Sept. 17th.

    _Tiron_ sp. Light colored. L. 9 mm.

    _Elasmopus brasiliensis_ Dana? L. 6 mm., yellow, brown eyes. Line
        on back.

    _Melita quinquedentata_ Shoem. L. 6.5 mm. Tide pools Aug. 29.

    _Allorchestes_ sp. immature. One lot pale green, red antennæ, L.
        3.5 mm. One red L. 10 mm. One from holdfasts brown and red. L.
        6 mm.

    _Hyalella azteca_ Sauss. Brown green, 3.5 to 4 mm.

    _Hyale_ sp. One red, L. 4 mm. One dark L. 6.5 mm. One pink-brown
        from sulphur sponge. L. 7 mm. One rose on back, ringed with
        white. One yellow green back, L. 5.5 mm. One yellow, pink
        antennæ, holdfast L. 11 mm. One brown from algæ L. 5 mm. One
        rose brown. L. 6 mm.

    _Orchestoidea corniculata_ Stout. Green grey, bluish antennæ L. 14
        mm.

    _Lembos_ sp. bands on body. L. 6 mm. From holdfasts.

    _Microprotopus_ sp. Bands on body. L. 6 mm.

    _Photis californica_ Stout. Bands on body. Holdfasts.

    _Neophotis inequalis_ Stout. Brown and red. L. 6 mm. Holdfast.

    _Amphithoe corallina_ Stout. Yellow, green antennæ. L. 8 mm.
        Another mottled white and black L. 10 mm. Another brown white
        legs two white spots on the sides. One with green eggs L. 9 mm.

    _A. vaillantii_ H. Lucas. Bright Red, L. 13 mm. Dredged 10 f. Aug.
        17.

    _A. rubricata_ Montagu (?) Brownish green, yellow spots on sides.
        Aug. 12, 1915.

    _Amphithoe_ sp. Pink, red antennæ, L. 11 mm.

    _Amphithoe_ Yellow, pink antennæ. Holdfast.

  W. A. H.

(_Contribution from the Zoological Laboratory of Pomona College_)




Journal of Entomology and Zoology--_Advertising Section_

======================================================================

                          _The_ Journal _of_
                          Zoological Research

                              _Edited by
            WALTER E. COLLINGE, M. Sc., F. L. S., F. E. S.
                      The Gatty Marine Laboratory
                The University, St. Andrews, Scotland_

The subject matter is strictly confined to original zoological
research--systematic and anatomical. Fully illustrated by lithographic
plates and text figures.

Each volume will consist of 4 parts, price $5.

  _All subscriptions should be forwarded to_

  Messrs. Dulau & Co., Ltd.
  37 Soho Square, London, W., England

======================================================================

                          GRIFFITH Incubators

                            [Illustration]

         A simple, well constructed bacteriological incubator

======================================================================

GAGE--The Microscope

An Introduction to Microscopic Methods and to Histology

  By SIMON H. GAGE.

  Twelfth Edition. Entirely rewritten, and with many new illustrations.
  Price, postpaid, $3.00.

This work aims to give help to everyone who uses the microscope,
whether he is a beginner or an advanced worker.


COMSTOCK--A Manual for the Study of Insects

  By JOHN HENRY COMSTOCK, Professor of Entomology in Cornell
  University, and ANNA BOTSFORD COMSTOCK, member of the Society of
  American Wood-Engravers. 8vo. cloth, IX.+701 pages, 797 figures in
  the text, and six full page plates. Nearly all of the figures were
  engraved especially for this work. Postpaid $4.07; net $3.75.

This hand-book is designed to meet the needs of teachers in the public
schools and of students in high schools and colleges.


NEEDHAM--General Biology

A book of outlines and practical studies for the general student

  By JAMES G. NEEDHAM, Professor of Limnology and General Biology in
  Cornell University. Cloth 8vo. XIV.+542 pages; 288 figures, mostly
  original. Postpaid $2.00.

This book is expressly designed to help the general student obtain a
comprehensive grasp of the principles of biology.


NEEDHAM & LLOYD--The Life of Inland Waters

A Text-Book of Freshwater Biology

  By JAMES G. NEEDHAM, Ph.D., Professor of Limnology and General
  Biology in Cornell University, and JOHN T. LLOYD, A.B., Assistant in
  Limnology in Cornell University.

This book is a broad presentation of the field of freshwater
biology, primarily in its scientific aspects, also in its relation
to commercial, civic, aesthetic and public health interests of man.
There is no book in the English language covering the field. Copiously
illustrated with photographs from Nature. 438 pages; 244 figures. Price
$3.00.


GAGE--Optic Projection

  By SIMON HENRY GAGE, Professor Emeritus of Histology and Embryology
  in Cornell University, and Henry Phelps Gage, Ph. D.

This work of over 700 pages and with over 400 figures is of especial
interest to workers in all fields of Biology in that it deals
especially with the use of the Projection Microscope for demonstrations
and for drawing. It also gives the fundamental principles of all the
forms of projection. A 16-page circular will be sent on request.
Postpaid, $3.00.


RILEY--Handbook of Medical Entomology

  By WM. A. RILEY, Ph. D., Professor of Insect Morphology and
  Parasitology in Cornell University and O. A. JOHANNSEN, Ph. D.,
  Professor of Biology in Cornell University.

A concise account of poisonous, and disease-carrying insects and their
allies, including descriptions and illustrations of the principal
species, with keys for their determination, and method of control.
Bound Library Buckram, medium 8vo. Nearly 375 pages. Price $2.00 net.

_Send for Descriptive Circular_

  The Comstock Publishing Company
  Cornell Heights, Ithaca, N. Y.

======================================================================

THE "ALL GLASS MOUNT"

for _Lepidoptera_ and other insects

[Illustration: _Odontolabis wollastoni, Java_]

We are able at last to offer our customers an all glass mount that we
believe comes nearer to meeting the requirements of museums and private
collectors than any previously put on the market.

No cut can properly show this mount, which must be seen to be
appreciated. Write for Circular 192, which describes fully what we are
offering.

When in need of Entomological supplies remember that we have the best
insect pins on the market and that our hand made Schmitt insect boxes
with three ply tops and bottoms are unsurpassed. Catalogue No. 33 free
on application.

Prompt shipments can be made from our large stock of United States
and exotic insects of all orders. We also prepare 150 different
metamorphoses of beneficial and injurious insects. Pupae now on hand
are listed in circular No. 198. Other circulars and price lists free
upon request.


  Ward's Natural Science Establishment
  84-102 College Ave.         Rochester, N. Y.

======================================================================

                          Entomological News

   A forty-eight page illustrated magazine, published monthly except
      August and September, devoted to the study of INSECT LIFE.
            It contains a list of the titles of the current
          Entomological Literature, and also articles by the
            leading Entomologists in the United States and
                 Canada. Valuable information for the
                  beginner, the economic entomologist
                         and the systematist.

  To new subscribers, $1.90; Renewals, $2.00; payable in advance.
  Single copies 25 cents. Address

  ENTOMOLOGICAL NEWS
  1900 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

======================================================================

CLASS WORK MATERIAL

                    CAN BE PROCURED AT ANY TIME OF
                             THE YEAR FROM

                       C. S. BRIMLEY, Zoologist
                         1135 Newberne Avenue
                       RALEIGH, N. C., U. S. A.

      Twenty-one years' experience      Price List on Application

======================================================================

The Journal of Parasitology

A Quarterly Devoted to Medical Zoology

This journal will be a medium for the prompt publication of briefer
papers and research notes on animal parasites. Emphasis laid on the
morphology, life history and biology of zooparasites and the relations
of animals to disease.

  Subscription, $2.00 a Volume

  Managing Editor, HENRY B. WARD;
  Univ. Illinois, Urbana, Illinois

======================================================================

[Illustration: Do Business by Mail

It's profitable, with accurate lists of prospects. Our catalogue
contains vital information on Mail Advertising. Also prices and
quantity on 6,000 national mailing lists, 99% guaranteed. Such as:

  War Material Mfrs.  Wealthy Men         Fly Paper Mfrs.
  Cheese Box Mfrs.    Ice Mfrs.           Foundries
  Shoe Retailers      Doctors             Farmers
  Tin Can Mfrs.       Axle Grease Mfrs.   Fish Hook Mfrs.
  Druggists           Railroad Employees  Feather Duster Mfrs.
  Auto Owners         Contractors         Hotels

Write for this valuable reference book.

Ross-Gould, 1027H Olive Street, St. Louis.

            Ross-Gould
              Mailing
         Lists      St. Louis
]

======================================================================




Pomona College


Located in one of the most healthful and beautiful parts of the
west coast. The mountains reach an elevation of ten thousand feet
within a few miles of the college and these with the nearby ocean
afford many special advantages for the study of things not in books.
Special advantages are afforded by the fact that the college limits
its attendance, the freshman class being restricted to two hundred
applicants. The success of the college is particularly indicated by the
large proportion of the graduates who proceed to advanced work in the
large universities. In addition, well-manned departments of music and
art afford exceptional advantages.

For further information, address

  Secretary of Pomona College
  Claremont, California




Transcriber's Note

All obvious typographical errors were corrected. For the words where
the "æ" ligature is present in greater quantity than those with just
"ae", the "ae" was converted to the ligature. The other cases were left
as in the original printed version. Below is a list of changes made in
the text.

  Page Change
  ==== ======================
   13  _Biborin ecbola_ sp. nov. => repeated copy deleted.
   13  The two [achaebous] => achaetous
   18  Second somite [achaetons] => achaetous







End of Project Gutenberg's Journal of Entomology and Zoology, by Various

